# Section 7: Data Protection
Data protection is the process of safeguarding information from corruption, compromise or loss.

These will be touched upon:
- Data Classficiations
- Data Ownership
- Data Controllers
- Data Custodians
- Data States
- Data Types
- Data Sovereignty
- Securing Data
- Data Loss Prevention (DLP)

## Data Classifications
Data classifications are categories based on the organizations value and the sensitivity o the information if it were to be disclosed.
Sensitive data is any data that can result in a loss of security or advantage to a company if it were to be released.

- Higher data classifications need more resources spent in protection.
- Overclassifying data leads to processing all data at a high level.

Commercial Classifications are as follows:
- Public data has no impact on the company if release. Often posted in an open-source environment.
- Sensitive data includes financial data, minimal impact if released.
- Private data contains data that should only be used within the organization.
- Confidential data is data that contains trade secrets, intellectual property, source code, and highly dangerous items to disclose. Only viewable by approved personnel.
- Critical data is extremely valuable information.

Government Classifications are as follows:
- Unclassified - Data that is released to the public under the Freedom of Information Act
- Sensitive But Classified - Data that would not hurt national security if released but could impact those whose data was being used. (ie army medical records).
- Confidential Data - Data that could seriously affect the data if disclosed.
- Secret Data - Data that could seriously affect national security if disclosed.
- Top Secret - Data that would damage national security if disclosed.

**Data should not be stored forever. How will it be destroyed when it's lifetime has run out?**

## Data Ownership
Data ownership is the process of identifying the person responsible for the CIA and privacy of the information assets.

- Data Owner is a senior executive role that has responsibility for maintaining the asset.
- Data Controller is the entity that holds the responsbility for deciding the methods of data storage. *Data controller holds the responsibility for breaches*.
- Data Processors are groups or people that are hired to assist the data controller.
- Data Steward who focuses on the quality of the data and classification of the data.
- Data Custodians are responsible for the hardware containing data.

- Privacy Officer is responsible for privacy related data. This person is usually the one 'on the hook' during a data breach.

The data owner should be the person who creates the information. If they created it, they shouold be responsible for managing it.
Information Technology should almost never be the data owners.
